---
title: "Charter"
featured_image: ''
date: 2021-02-19T15:32:00.711Z
summary: "With the digital transformation of information sharing, the ability to
trace the provenance of media has become critical. To address this issue
at scale for publishers, creators and consumers, the Consortium will
develop technical specifications for establishing content provenance and
authenticity. The specifications will be informed by scenarios,
workflows and requirements gathered from industry experts and partner
organizations, including the Project Origin Alliance and the Content
Authenticity Initiative (CAI.)"
---

## Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity (C2PA) Charter

With the digital transformation of information sharing, the ability to
trace the provenance of media has become critical. To address this issue
at scale for publishers, creators and consumers, the Consortium will
develop technical specifications for establishing content provenance and
authenticity. The specifications will be informed by scenarios,
workflows and requirements gathered from industry experts and partner
organizations, including the Project Origin Alliance and the Content
Authenticity Initiative (CAI.)

The Consortium Steering Committee will approve the formation and planned
activities of technical working groups. Work will include:

-   Documenting industry workflow requirements, informed by subject
    matter experts and partner organizations such as Project Origin and
    CAI

-   Applying those requirements to the development of content provenance
    specifications

-   Developing best practices and reference designs for applying those
    standards to the targeted industry workflows

-   Ensuring that the specifications can be used in ways that respect
    privacy and personal control of data, and promote tool availability
    for a wide range of organizations

-   Ensuring that specifications meet appropriate security requirements

-   Promoting selected specifications to become global standards

In addition to identifying target industries, establishing technical
working groups and working with partner organizations as appropriate,
the Steering Committee will develop guidelines that address issues
pertinent to the use of content provenance methods, including but not
limited to:

-   The education of creators, publishers, media consumers, regulatory
    bodies, and governmental agencies

-   The establishment of a rich ecosystem of digital provenance enabled
    applications

-   The global adoption of digital provenance techniques by target
    industry devices, systems, and services

-   The adoption of the Consortium's specifications by social media and
    messaging platforms

-   Addressing the privacy and data concerns of creators, publishers,
    and consumers

-   Ensuring that content accessibility is not negatively impacted by
    digital provenance techniques
